      
    • Presenter Information 
        ◦ Mila Paul
        ◦ Adjunct Faculty and Security Advisor
        ◦ Never spoken for DEFCON
        ◦ spaulfinancial@gmail.com, sharmila.paul@dsu.edu
        ◦ (813) 428 1924
        ◦ www.linkedin.com/milapaul
        ◦ Would you like your submission sent in anonymously to the review board?*:  No
          
    • Presentation Information 
        ◦ Keeping Alice and Bob’s Secrets Safe (idea: can I provide a hash as the title to challenge them to reverse hash the title?)
        ◦ 45 minutes
        ◦ No Demonstration
        ◦ No audience participation
        ◦ No tools
        ◦ No exploits
        ◦ No contingencies
        ◦ I spoke on a similar topic at a lower level specifically about current blockchain cryptographic algorithms and future cryptographic algorithms at SFISSA 2019 and Bsides Orlando 2019. This themed DEFCON topic submission focuses on using this technology to promote and continue cypherpunk ideology.
        ◦ Not submitting to Black Hat
        ◦ Not submitting to BsidesLV
        ◦ I consent to forward the submission to the DEFCON villages
      
    • Abstract 
	In a world of archaic networking protocols like BGP and TCP/IP,  the Cypherpunks integrated 	cryptography to secure network transmission and speak freely on the internet.  Despite 	aggressive pushback, 	their efforts included a solution to the global economy based on 	cryptography: electronic cash.  A Centralized electronic cash solution beginning in 1980 led to 	the ultimate disruption by Satoshi Nakomoto’s decentralized Bitcoin core in 2008  that became 	impossible to shut down. I will summarize the cryptographic algorithms that make up Bitcoin 	core’s security and explore current picks for future blockchain algorithms in light of 	cryptanalysis and quantum cryptography to maintain our right to privacy and anonymity.
	
    • Why DEF CON? 
	I have a great respect for the philosophy behind DEFCON and all it stands for.  I feel that the 	philosophy matches my own love for freedom, privacy and integrity.  The lack of full corporate 	endorsement allows for an authenticity to a true passion for the security culture and the love of 	all things good.  I think that at the end of the day, we all consider ourselves superheroes of some 	kind and stand for constantly bettering ourselves and our technology for the greater good.  I  	love the security community and all of the amazing people I meet at the conferences.  I love 	being provided a platform to teach and inspire newbs and impassioned veterans to security.

    • Speaker Bio
          Mila began her eighteen years in the tech industry as a systems engineer while studying computer science and mathematics and went on to complete an MS in Information Systems Security. She spent twelve years as a defense contractor in some hot zones supporting the DoD and DoS networks. She is currently pursuing her PhD in Cyber Ops,  and has taken an avid interest in exploiting and breaking things. Mila is now adjunct faculty in Cyber and Computer Science. She is also an educator and security advisor for a blockchain startup collective. 
          
    • Outline 
	I. Intro 
        I. Who am I to speak on this subject? 
        II. My plan on what the audience will hear
            a. The cypherpunk ideology and why electronic cash is important and history of electronic cash solutions
            b.  The ingenious mix of five cryptographic algorithms called Bitcoin Core can save the world economy
            c. Possible threats to the current core (cryptanalysis and quantum cryptography) and solutions so far
       
    II. Background and Influence to modern cryptography
        I.  symmetric cryptography globally caught on in warfare starting in 3500BC
        II. ENIAC6,  subroutines, tcp/ip, spanning tree, internet, cyberpunks
        III. assymetric crypto,  pgp
       
    III. Background and Influence of Cypherpunks
        I. There is no attention to privacy and anonymity in the network
            a. tcp/ip sucks for security
            b. bgp sucks for security
        II. Cypherpunk meeting, mailing list, manifesto
            a. quote  ‘anonymous systems. Defending privacy with…..”
            b. why anonymity is important
            c. quote “cypherpunks write code’ 
            d. why coding cryptography makes it more actionable than chalkboard theory
        III. Why electronic cash systems?
            a. Anonymous
            b. trusted central authority
            c. David Chaum 1980 electronic cash dissertation
               
               
       
    IV. Cypherpunk history of Electronic Cash Systems
        I. eCash
            a. 1990/David Chaum
            b. centralized
            c. couldn’t compete with credit cards
            d. main emphasis: anonymity is important
        II. eGold
            a. 1996/Douglas Jackson and Barry Downey
            b. centralized
            c. created money backed by gold
            d. made cash transactions on palm pilots
            e. government confiscated all gold
        III.  Bitgold 
            a. 2005/Nick Szabo
            b. decentralized 
            c. algorithms used for validation
            d.  no inception
        IV. Bitcoin
            a. Anonymous solution to economy during bailout
            b. algorithms designed to withstand issues with inflation
            c. why fiat and banks take power from people
            d. bitcoin is cypherpunk ideology

    V. Bitcoin Core’s Algorithms
        I. Core Properties
            a. immutable
            b. decentralized 
            c. trustless
               
        II. Cryptographic Algorithms
            a. Symmetric
                a. SHA256
                b. Proof of Work
            b. Asymmetrical
                a. ECDSA secp256k1
                b. Key usage
            c. Merkle Tree Hashing
                a. validation
                b. consensus
        III.  Minting Algorithms
            a. Integrity with Consensus
            b. regulates inflation rate
            c. trustless
               
        IV. HashCash
            a. use of resources for reward
            b. game theory


    VI.  Security Threats for Bitcoin’s algorithms
       
        I. Cryptanalysis
            a. strong algorithms
            b. can be changed with consensus
            c. use bitcoin address once
               
        II. Quantum Cryptography
            a. May only be theory
                a. Grovers
                b. Shores
            b. Not worth using to break BTC for 14 Bil
            c. Electronic Cash can’t be eradicated
               
        III.  Current Solutions
            a. Supersingular Isogeny Key Exchange
            b. McEliece
            c. Lattice Based Cryptography

    VII.  Promote the Dream!
        I. Educate cryptocurrency adopters on security
        II. test decentralized apps for vulnerabilities
        III.  Analyze submitted algorithms
        IV. Submit your own on <insert link for nist crypto contest site>
        V. QA
       

	
    • Scheduling and Equipment Requirements 
        ◦ no requirements
    • Supporting Files 
        ◦ history of cryptography (txt & pdf version)
        ◦ secure cryptography behind bitcoin
        ◦ partial doc for reversing a decentralized application
        ◦ copy of this email submission in a txt file
    • Signed Submission Agreements 
      
SUBMISSION AGREEMENTS
Please read and accept these terms by inserting your name where noted. Failure to do so will render your submission incomplete. Please read these carefully as some of the terms have changed.
Grant of Copyright Use
I warrant that the above work has not been previously published elsewhere, or if it has, that I have obtained permission for its publication by DEF CON Communications, Inc. and that I will promptly supply DEF CON Communications, Inc. with wording for crediting the original publication and copyright owner. If I am selected for presentation, I hereby give DEF CON Communications, Inc. permission to duplicate, record and redistribute this presentation, which includes, but is not limited to, the conference proceedings, conference CD, video, audio, and hand-outs to the conference attendees for educational, on-line, and all other purposes.
Terms of Speaking Requirements
1) I will submit a completed presentation, a copy of the tool(s) and/or code(s), and a reference to all of the tool(s), law(s), Web sites and/or publications referenced to at the end of my talk and as described in this CFP submission for publication on the DEF CON media server, to be released the day of the conference, by 12:00 noon Pacific time, July 15, 2019.

2) I will submit a final Abstract and Biography for the DEF CON website and Printed Conference Materials by 12:00 noon Pacific time, June 15, 2019.

3) I understand if I fail to submit a completed PDF presentation by July 15, 2019, I may be replaced by an alternate presentation or may forfeit my honorarium. This decision will be made by DEF CON and I will be informed in writing of my status.

4) I will include a detailed bibliography as either a separate document or included within the presentation of all resources cited and/or used in my presentation.

5) I will complete my presentation within the time allocated to me - not running over, or excessively under the time allocation.

6) I understand that DEF CON will provide 1 projector feed, 2 screens, microphones, wired and/or wireless Internet. I understand that I am responsible for providing all other necessary equipment, including laptops and machines (with VGA output), to complete my presentation.

7) If applicable, I will submit within 5 days of the completion of the conference any updated, revised or additional presentation(s) or materials that were used in my presentation but not included on the conference media server or conference proceedings.
Terms of Speaking Remuneration
1) I understand that I will be responsible for my own hotel and travel expenses.

2) I understand that DEF CON will issue one $300 payment per presentation to the primary speaker only. Payment will be made in the form of company check. I may choose to waive my $300 honorarium in exchange for 3 DEF CON Human badges, received at the start of the conference. I may also choose to donate my honorarium to charity.

3) I understand that I may receive payment on-site at the conference. If selecting the $300 payment as my honorarium, I must provide a valid name and postal mail address so that the payment may be mailed. In some rare cases, I may be required to complete a W8 (Non-U.S. Citizen) or W9 (U.S. Citizen) before payment is issued.

4) I understand that I will be paid within 30 days from the end of the conference, after I have completed my presentation. I understand that should my talk be determined to be unsuitable (e.g. a vendor or sales pitch, a talk on the keeping of goats, etc.) after I have presented, that I will not receive an honorarium.

As detailed above, I, (Mila Paul), have read and agree to the Grant of Copyright Use. I, (Mila Paul), have read and agree to the Terms of Speaking Requirements. I, (Mila Paul), have read and agree to the Agreement to Terms of Speaking Remuneration or I will forfeit my honorarium.
PRESS CONTACT
I, (Mila Paul) understand that DEF CON's official Press Liaison & Staff may contact me. I consent to be contacted in order to arrange interviews with the media. My contact information will not be given to third parties without my consent.
 



